[IMP] sales: add a pdf to a product pdf quote builder (#17359)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/sales_quotations/pdf_quote_builder/add_pdf_products.rst

Add PDFs to a product
=====================

> In Odoo **Sales** app, it's possible to add a custom PDF to a product form using the PDF Quote

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Odoo **Sales** app, it's possible to add a custom PDF to a product form using the PDF Quote
```

> builder feature. When the product is added to a quotation, the PDF is also inserted into the final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
builder feature. When the product is added to a quotation, the custom PDF is inserted into the final
```

> PDF and is displayed in the *Quote Builder* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PDF and is displayed in the quotation's *Quote Builder* tab.
```

Reviewer: something to clarify where the tab is

> .. _pdf_quote_builder/add_pdf_products/add-pdf-to-product:

Reviewer: [custom anchor format](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#custom-anchors) is app/section name, then file name -- i think that means sales? as opposed to "pdf quote builder" which is the feature name

> Add a PDF to a product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a PDF to a product template
```

======================

> To add a custom PDF to a product, go to the :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom PDF to a *product template*, go to the :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`,
```

and select the desired product to add a custom PDF to.

On the product page, click the :guilabel:`Documents` smart button at the top then either click

> :guilabel:`New` or :guilabel:`Upload` on the :guilabel:`Documents` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and select the product. On the product form, click the :guilabel:`Documents` smart button at the top to open the :guilabel:`Documents` page.
```

Reviewer: we mention the new/upload buttons below, and they aren't part of the screenshot, so we can remove it here to avoid confusion

.. image:: add_pdf_products/documents-smart-button.png

>    :alt: The Documents smart button on a product form in Odoo Sales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: The Documents smart button on a Sales product form.
```

Click :guilabel:`Upload` to open the local file directory of the user's computer. Select and upload
a PDF to Odoo. Click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon in the corner of
the document card and select :guilabel:`Edit` to further configure the PDF.

Click :guilabel:`New` to create a blank PDF form. Upload the PDF using the :guilabel:`Upload your

> file` button in the :guilabel:`File Content` field on the form.

Reviewer: format as list, or preface with "if you have a pdf... if not..."

> .. _pdf_quote_builder/add_pdf_products/add-pdf-to-variant:

Reviewer: anchor format

Add a PDF to a product variant
------------------------------

> A PDF document can also be added to a product variant, rather than the parent product. If the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PDF document can also be added to a product variant, rather than the product template. If the
```

variant is added to a quotation, and there are documents on a product *and* on its variant, **only**

> the documents in the variant are shown in the *Quote Builder* tab of the quotation.

Reviewer: this information is only relevant after adding pdf to variant
consider making it an admonition block at the end of the section

To add a PDF to a product variant, navigate to the :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products -->
Product Variants`, select the product variant, click the :guilabel:`Documents` smart button, and
:ref:`upload the PDF <pdf_quote_builder/add_pdf_products/add-pdf-to-product>`.

The PDF document form for the product variant is the same as the parent product's PDF document form,
**except** it doesn't include the :guilabel:`E-Commerce` section and thus cannot be published on the

> website.

Reviewer: the reader might want to know the limitations before creating
consider moving this to the first section paragraph

> .. _pdf_quote_builder/add_pdf_products/pdf-form-configuration:

Reviewer: app name

PDF form configuration
======================

The first field on the PDF document form is for the document :guilabel:`Name`, and it is grayed out
(not clickable) until a PDF document is uploaded. Once a PDF document has been uploaded, the
:guilabel:`Name` field is auto-populated with the PDF document's name, and it can then be edited.

Prior to uploading a document, there's the option to select either :guilabel:`File` or a
:guilabel:`URL` in the :guilabel:`Type` field's drop-down menu. If a PDF is uploaded, the
:guilabel:`Type` field is automatically set to :guilabel:`File` and cannot be changed.

.. image:: add_pdf_products/document-form-uploaded-pdf.png
   :alt: A standard document form with an uploaded pdf in Odoo Sales.

For the :guilabel:`Visible at` field, in the :guilabel:`Sales` section, click the drop-down menu,
and select one of the following:

> - :guilabel:`Quotation`: The PDF document is sent to (and accessible by) customers at any time.

Reviewer: i'm a little unclear on the differences here. does this option mean the pdf is available separately from the full quote pdf? does "any time" mean it's visible on ecommerce website?

and when is the pdf sent, as soon as the customer reaches out? how is that different from **inside quote** including it in the pdf quote?

Reviewer: including examples like you did for **confirmed order** might help

- :guilabel:`Confirmed order`: The PDF document is sent to customers upon order confirmation. This
  is best for user manuals and other supplemental PDF documents.

- :guilabel:`Inside quote`: The PDF document is included in the PDF quotation, between the header

>   pages and the :guilabel:`Pricing` section.

Reviewer: consider introducing the fields as a list, e.g. lara's [new employees](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/hr/employees/new_employee.html) doc

Reviewer: place the image above or below so it doesn't break the text

Reviewer: `mrp: visible at` options can be indented

.. example::
   When the :guilabel:`Inside quote` option for the :guilabel:`Visible at` field is selected and the
   custom PDF document, `Corner Desk.pdf`, is uploaded, the PDF document appears in the *customer
   portal* quotation under the :guilabel:`Documents` field.

    .. image:: add_pdf_products/pdf-on-quote-sample.png
       :alt: Sample of an uploaded pdf with the on quote option chosen in Odoo Sales.

> Next to the :guilabel:`File Content` field is the :guilabel:`Configure dynamic fields` link. Click

Reviewer: i'm not sure i see this in the screenshot, it's not the edit/delete buttons is it? if it's not in there, consider updating the screenshot to include it

the link if the PDF document has dynamic form fields that need to be :ref:`configured to Odoo fields
<pdf_quote_builder/dynamic_text/map-PDF-to-Odoo>`. If the PDF document has custom dynamic form

> fields, refer to the :ref:` pdf_quote_builder/dynamic_text/custom-dynamic-form-fields` for more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fields, refer to the :ref:`pdf_quote_builder/dynamic_text/custom-dynamic-form-fields` for more
```

Reviewer: ref wasn't being formatted correctly, check if removing this space fixes it

information.

In the :guilabel:`E-Commerce` section, the :guilabel:`Publish on Website` checkbox allows the PDF

> document to display on the product page in the online store.

Reviewer: if you do decide to format fields as a list, make sure to include this one as well

.. example::
   When the :guilabel:`Publish on Website` option is enabled, a link to the uploaded PDF document,

>    `Corner Desk.pdf`, appears on the product's page in the online store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When the :guilabel:`Publish on Website` option is enabled, a link to the uploaded PDF document appears on the product page in the online store.
```

>    It appears beneath a :guilabel:`Documents` heading, with a link showcasing the name of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: if needed, could just say "under **add to wishlist**"
at end of previous sentence

   uploaded PDF document.

    .. image:: add_pdf_products/show-product-page.png

>        :alt: Showing a link to an uploaded document on a product page using Odoo Sales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       :alt: An uploaded document on an e-commerce product page.
```

> .. _pdf_quote_builder/add_pdf_products/find-pdfs-for-product:

Reviewer: app name

> Find all configured PDFs for a product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View all configured PDFs for a product
```

Reviewer: could also simplify to "view all configured pdfs"
and add first sentence "to view all configured pdfs for a product... "

======================================

Navigate to the :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products` and select a product. Click the

> :guilabel:`Documents` smart button. This opens the :guilabel:`Documents` page and displays all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Documents` smart button to open the :guilabel:`Documents` page and display all the
```

documents for that product, including those for its variants. Variant documentation displays a
*Variant* badge on its document card, making it easy to distinguish from the parent product's

> documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documents for the product and its variants. PDFs for product variants are displayed with a
*Variant* badge to distinguish them from PDFs for the product template.
```

Reviewer: link to product variants article https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants.html
